But more specifically, in computing, networking is the same idea, just dispersed to technological devices. Take your phone as an example; the reason that you have it is to access things. We'll cover how these devices communicate with each other and the rules that follow.

In computing, a network can be formed by anywhere from 2 devices to billions. These devices include everything from your laptop and phone to security cameras, traffic lights and even farming!

Networks are integrated into our everyday life. Be it gathering data for the weather, delivering electricity to homes or even determining who has the right of way at a road. Because networks are so embedded in the modern-day, networking is an essential concept to grasp in cybersecurity.

Take the diagram below as an example, Alice, Bob and Jim have formed their network! We'll come onto this a bit later on.

s previously stated, the Internet is made up of many small networks all joined together.  These small networks are called private networks, where networks connecting these small networks are called public networks -- or the Internet! So, to recap, a network can be one of two types:

A private network
A public network

An IP Address
A Media Access Control (MAC) Address -- think of this as being similar to a serial number.

IP Addresses
Briefly, an IP address (or Internet Protocol) address can be used as a way of identifying a host on a network for a period of time, where that IP address can then be associated with another device without the IP address changing. First, let's split up precisely what an IP address is in the diagram below:

MAC Addresses

Devices on a network will all have a physical network interface, which is a microchip board found on the device's motherboard. This network interface is assigned a unique address at the factory it was built at, called a MAC (Media Access Control ) address. The MAC address is a twelve-character hexadecimal number (a base sixteen numbering system used in computing to represent numbers) split into two's and separated by a colon. These colons are considered separators. For example, a4:c3:f0:85:ac:2d. The first six characters represent the company that made the network interface, and the last six is a unique number.

MAC addresses is that they can be faked or "spoofed" in a process known as spoofing. 

ICMP (Internet Control Message Protocol)
